NLPP
====


Install the latest English/Dutch bi-lingual
[Newsreader](http://www.newsreader-project.eu) pipeline.  This branche
of `cltl/nlpp` is a simplified version. It performs installation on a
fresh Virtual Machine (VM) with the Ubuntu 16.04 operating system on
it. It is used to generate a Docker container that serves nlpp.

## Brief description

The modules to be installed are obtained either from a Github repo or
from a temporary "secret" repository. The file `nlpp-modules` lists
the modules to be installed, their origin (either Github URL or name
of tarball in the secret repository) and, for Github-based modules,
the commit-set to be used. The installation script uses `nlpp-modules`
to perform the installation.

The modules in this version of nlpp run on Python version 3.5 or Java
version 1.8.

Each module contains a script `install' that installs the module and a
script `run` that reads a NAF file from standard in and produces
another NAF file on standard out. If the module needs to write on
temporary files, it uses the Unix `mktemp` command to generate scratch
files in a temporary directory that has been supplied by the operating
system.


## Installation

This instruction assumes that the modules of the pipeline are to be
installed in `/usr/local/share/pipelines/nlpp/nlppmodules`. 

### Notes

1. You need a key file `nrkey` in your home directory. Ask the author
   for this key.
2. It is presumed that the user who performs the installation is able
   to perform the `sudo` command without need of a password.



Installation goes as follows:

1. Put the private key "nrkey" in your home directory
2. Clone this repository and `cd` to it.
3. Perform `./install`

## Test

A brief test goes as follows:

1. Cd to subdirectory `test`
2. Perform `./testit`
3. When all went well, subdirectories `testen` and `testnl` have been
   generated. `testen/out.naf` and `testnl/out.naf` are the annotated versions of input-files
   `test.en.in.naf` resp. `testnl/out.naf`. All the intermediate NAF
   files, generated by the modules, are present as well.


## Run

The script `test/testit` illustrates how the pipeline can be used.


